Let's talk about Amazon ElastiCache.
So the same way you get RDS
to have managed relational databases,
ElastiCache is going to help you get managed Redis
or Memcached, which are cache technologies.
So what are caches?
Well, they are in-memory databases
with really high performance and low latency.
And what the cache will help you with is to help
reduce the load off of databases
for read-intensive workloads.
The idea is that the common queries are going to be cached,
and therefore, your database will not be queried every time.
Just your cache can be used
to retrieve the results of these queries.
What this also helps you do is
make your application stateless
by putting the state of your application
into Amazon ElastiCache.
And because we have the same benefits for RDS,
AWS will take the same maintenance of the operating system,
the patching, the optimization,
the setup, configuration, monitoring,
failure recovery, and backups.
Now, if you use Amazon ElastiCache,
just so you know that it will require you
to do some heavy application code changes
for your application.
This is not something you just enable,
and off you go, you have a cache.
You need to change your application to query the cache
before or after querying the database
and we'll see the strategies in a minute.
So now let's talk about the architecture
for using ElastiCache.
And there can be many, but I'm just giving you an example.
So, let's say we have Amazon ElastiCache and RDS database
and your application.
The application will query ElastiCache
to see if the query are already being made.
And if this has already been made
and it is stored in ElastiCache,
then it's called a cache hit,
and then it just gets the answer
straight from Amazon ElastiCache
and we're saving a trip to the database to do the query.
Now, in case of a cache miss,
then we need to fetch the data from the database.
We're going to read it from the database.
And then for other application or other instances
where the same query will be made,
we can write the data back into the cache
so that such as the same query next time will result
in a cache hit.
The idea is that it will help to relieve load
from your RDS database.
And because you're storing data in the cache,
there must be a cache invalidation strategy to make sure
that only the most current data is used in there.
And this is the whole difficulty
around using caching technologies.
Another architecture is around storing the user session
to make your application stateless.
So the idea is that your user will do login
into any kind of your applications,
and then the application will write the session data
into Amazon ElastiCache.
Now, if your user is redirected
to another instance of your application,
then your application can retrieve the session case,
the session directly from the Amazon ElastiCache,
and therefore your user is still logged in
and it doesn't need to log in one more time.
And so the idea is that
now you made your application stateless
by writing the session data of your user
into Amazon ElastiCache.
So if we compare Redis and Memcached,
so for Redis we have multi-availability zone
with auto-failover as a feature,
and you can create read replicas to scale the reads
and have high availability.
You also get data durability using AOF persistence,
and you have a backup and restore features
on the open source version of Redis.
It also supports sets and sorted sets,
which are a very nice way to create leaderboards
and provide you with some very nice features in a cache.
So the way I like to think of Redis is
a Redis node being replicated into another one
to give you an idea of how it works.
Of course, Redis is evolving fast
and this may not be general, but this is a simplification.
And for memcached, the idea is that
you have a multiple nodes set up
and they're partitioning your data.
That means it's called charting
so you have multiple nodes together.
And there's no high availability, there's no replication.
Again, not everything may be true, for example,
for the serverless version of of memcached,
but I'm just trying to draw a simple image here.
It's not personal data.
So if you have an issue with memcached,
you may lose your entire cache and you have backup
and restore features only for the serverless version
of memcached, not the self-managed version
of memcached on ElastiCache.
You also have a multi-thread architecture,
which may be good for performance.
So the way I like to think of memcached is they're sharding
so you have multiple nodes next to each other,
which are partitioning, which are sharing the data, okay?
So the exam may not ask you many questions
or any question about choosing Redis versus Memcached
but it's good for you to know as a reference point
based on the use case if that appears at the exam.
Alright, that's it, I hope you liked it
and I will see you in the next lecture.